[IMP] accounting: reporting (#6533)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/finance/accounting/reporting.rst

> Main reports available

Reviewer: This H1 title is the only one in this page, I would remove it.

Author: There must always be an H1

-  **Aged Receivable**
-  **Cash Flow Statement**
-  **Tax Report**

Reports can be **annotated, printed, exported to XLSX or PDF**, and **drilled down** to see details
(payments, invoices, journal items, etc.).

> .. image:: reporting/reporting-annotate.png

Reviewer: It is necessary to click the down arrow to be able to annotate, it might be good to clarify it? The image doesn't show how to print or export. How is it possible to do it?

   :alt: Annotate reports.

You can compare values across periods. Go to the :guilabel:`Comparison` menu, and select the time
periods you want to compare.

.. image:: reporting/reporting-comparison.png
   :alt: Comparison menu to compare time periods.

.. _reporting/balance-sheet:

Balance Sheet
-------------

The **Balance Sheet** shows a snapshot of the assets, liabilities and equity of your organisation at
a particular date.

.. image:: reporting/reporting-balance-sheet.png
   :alt: Balance sheet report of Odoo.

.. _reporting/profit-and-loss:

Profit and Loss
---------------

The **Profit and Loss** report (or **Income Statement**) shows your company's net income by
deducting expenses from revenue for the report period.

.. image:: reporting/reporting-profit-and-loss.png
   :alt: Profit and Loss report of Odoo

.. _reporting/executive-summary:

Executive Summary
-----------------

> The **Executive Summary** allows for a quick look at all the important figures to run your company.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Executive Summary** allows a quick look at all the important figures to run your company.
```

In basic terms, this is what each item in the following section reports:

- **Performance:**
    - **Gross profit margin:**
        The contribution of each individual sale made by your business **minus** any direct costs
        needed to make those sales (labour, materials, etc).
    - **Net profit margin:**
        The contribution of each individual sale made by your business **minus** any direct costs
        needed to make those sales *and* fixed overheads your company has (electricity, rent, taxes
        to be paid as a result of those sales, etc).

>     - **Return on investment (p.a.):**

Reviewer: p.a. ? what does it mean?

Author: per annum

        The ratio of net profit made to the amount of assets the company used to make those profits.
- **Position:**

>     - **Average debtor days:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Average debtors days:**
```

        The average number of days it takes your customers to (fully) pay you across all your
        customer invoices.

>     - **Average creditor days:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Average creditors days:**
```

        The average number of days it takes you to (fully) pay your suppliers across all your bills.

>     - **Short term cash forecast:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - **Short-term cash forecast:**
```

Author: It's without a hyphen in Odoo (I'm aware it's a typo)

        your **Sales account** for the month **minus** the balance of your **Purchases account** for
        the month.
    - **Current assets to liabilities:**
        Also referred to as **current ratio**, this is the ratio of current assets (assets that
        could be turned into cash within a year) to the current liabilities (liabilities that will
        be due in the next year). This is typically used to measure a company's ability to service
        its debt.

.. image:: reporting/reporting-executive-summary.png
   :alt: Executive summary report in Odoo.

.. _reporting/general-ledger:

General Ledger
--------------

The **General Ledger Report** shows all transactions from all accounts for a chosen date range. The
initial summary report shows each account's totals; from there, you can view a detailed transaction
report or any exceptions. This report helps check every transaction that occurred during a specific
period.

.. image:: reporting/reporting-general-ledger.png
   :alt: General Ledger report in Odoo.

.. _reporting/aged-payable:

Aged Payable
------------

Run the **Aged Payable Details** report to display information on individual bills, credit notes,

> and overpayments owed by you, and how long these have gone unpaid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and overpayments you owe and how long these have gone unpaid.
```

.. image:: reporting/reporting-aged-payable.png
   :alt: Aged Payable report in Odoo.

.. _reporting/aged-receivable:

Aged Receivable
---------------

> The **Aged Receivables** report shows the sales invoices that were awaiting payment during a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **Aged Receivables** report shows the sales invoices awaiting payment during a
```

-  **Aged Receivable**
-  **Cash Flow Statement**
-  **Tax Report**

Reports can be **annotated, printed, and drilled down** to see details (payments, invoices,
journal items, etc.) by clicking the **down** arrow. Reports can also be exported to **PDF** or

> **XLSX** format by clicking :guilabel:`PDF` or :guilabel:`XLSLX` at the top of the page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**XLSX** format by clicking :guilabel:`PDF` or :guilabel:`XLSX` at the top of the page.
```

.. image:: reporting/reporting-annotate.png
   :alt: Annotate reports.

> You can compare values across periods. Go to the :guilabel:`Comparison` menu and select the periods
> you want to compare.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can compare values across periods by using the :guilabel:`Comparison` menu and selecting the periods
you want to compare.
```
Suggestion to link the two sentences (i.e., feel free to keep it as it is)

.. image:: reporting/reporting-comparison.png
   :alt: Comparison menu to compare time periods.

.. _reporting/balance-sheet:

Balance Sheet
-------------

> The **Balance Sheet** shows a snapshot of your organization's assets, liabilities and equity at a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **Balance Sheet** shows a snapshot of your organization's assets, liabilities, and equity at a
```

particular date.

.. image:: reporting/reporting-balance-sheet.png
   :alt: Balance sheet report of Odoo.

.. _reporting/profit-and-loss:

Profit and Loss
---------------

The **Profit and Loss** report (or **Income Statement**) shows your company's net income by
deducting expenses from revenue for the reporting period.

.. image:: reporting/reporting-profit-and-loss.png
   :alt: Profit and Loss report of Odoo

.. _reporting/executive-summary:

Executive Summary
-----------------

The **Executive Summary** allows a quick look at all the important figures to run your company.

In basic terms, this is what each item in the following section reports:

- **Performance:**
    - **Gross profit margin:**

>         The contribution of each individual sale made by your business **minus** any direct costs
>         needed to make those sales (labour, materials, etc).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        The contribution of all sales made by your business **minus** any direct costs
        needed to make those sales (labor, materials, etc.).
```

    - **Net profit margin:**

>         The contribution of each individual sale made by your business **minus** any direct costs
>         needed to make those sales *and* fixed overheads your company has (electricity, rent, taxes
>         to be paid as a result of those sales, etc).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        The contribution of all sales made by your business **minus** any direct costs
        needed to make those sales *and* fixed overheads your company has (electricity, rent, taxes
        to be paid as a result of those sales, etc.).
```

    - **Return on investment (per annum):**
        The ratio of net profit made to the amount of assets the company used to make those profits.
- **Position:**
    - **Average debtors days:**
        The average number of days it takes your customers to (fully) pay you across all your
        customer invoices.
    - **Average creditors days:**
        The average number of days it takes you to (fully) pay your suppliers across all your bills.
    - **Short-term cash forecast:**
        How much cash is expected in or out of your business in the next month, i.e., the balance of
        your **Sales account** for the month **minus** the balance of your **Purchases account** for
        the month.
    - **Current assets to liabilities:**

>         Also referred to as **current ratio**, this is the ratio of current assets (assets that
>         could be turned into cash within a year) to the current liabilities (liabilities that will
>         be due in the next year). It is typically used to measure a company's ability to service its
>         debt.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        Also referred to as **current ratio**, this is the ratio of current assets (:dfn:`assets that
        could be turned into cash within a year`) to the current liabilities (:dfn:`liabilities that will
        be due in the next year`). It is typically used to measure a company's ability to service its
        debt.
```
You could use definition markups here :)

General Ledger
--------------

The **General Ledger Report** shows all transactions from all accounts for a chosen date range. The
initial summary report shows each account's totals; from here, you can view a detailed transaction
report or any exceptions. This report helps check every transaction that occurred during a specific
period.

.. image:: reporting/reporting-general-ledger.png
   :alt: General Ledger report in Odoo.

.. _reporting/aged-payable:

Aged Payable
------------

Run the **Aged Payable Details** report to display information on individual bills, credit notes,
and overpayments you owe and how long these have gone unpaid.

.. image:: reporting/reporting-aged-payable.png
   :alt: Aged Payable report in Odoo.

.. _reporting/aged-receivable:

Aged Receivable
---------------

The **Aged Receivables** report shows the sales invoices awaiting payment during a selected month
and several months prior.

.. image:: reporting/reporting-aged-receivable.png
   :alt: Aged Receivable report in Odoo.

.. _reporting/cash-flow-statement:

Cash Flow Statement
-------------------

The **Cash Flow Statement** shows how changes in balance sheet accounts and income affect cash and

> cash equivalents and breaks the analysis down to operating, investing and financing activities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
cash equivalents and breaks the analysis down to operating, investing, and financing activities.
```
